packages/calcite-components/src/components/checkbox/readme.md, before:

# calcite-checkbox

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->

## Usage

### Basic

```html
<calcite-checkbox id="first-name" name="first-name"></calcite-checkbox>
```

### Checked-with-calcite-label

```html
<calcite-label layout="inline" for="checked-item">
  To do
  <calcite-checkbox checked id="checked-item" name="checked-item"></calcite-checkbox>
</calcite-label>
```

### Indeterminate-with-native-label

```html
<calcite-label for="checked-indeterminate">Status</calcite-label>
<calcite-checkbox checked indeterminate id="checked-indeterminate" name="checked-indeterminate"></calcite-checkbox>
```

## Properties

| Property        | Attribute       | Description                                                                                                                                                             | Type                             | Default     |
| --------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `checked`       | `checked`       | When `true`, the component is checked.                                                                                                                                  | `boolean`                        | `false`     |
| `disabled`      | `disabled`      | When `true`, interaction is prevented and the component is displayed with lower opacity.                                                                                | `boolean`                        | `false`     |
| `form`          | `form`          | The `id` of the form that will be associated with the component. When not set, the component will be associated with its ancestor form element, if any.                 | `string`                         | `undefined` |
| `guid`          | `guid`          | The `id` attribute of the component. When omitted, a globally unique identifier is used.                                                                                | `string`                         | `undefined` |
| `indeterminate` | `indeterminate` | When `true`, the component is initially indeterminate, which is independent from its `checked` value. The state is visual only, and can look different across browsers. | `boolean`                        | `false`     |
| `label`         | `label`         | Accessible name for the component.                                                                                                                                      | `string`                         | `undefined` |
| `name`          | `name`          | Specifies the name of the component. Required to pass the component's `value` on form submission.                                                                       | `string`                         | `undefined` |
| `required`      | `required`      | When `true`, the component must have a value in order for the form to submit.                                                                                           | `boolean`                        | `false`     |
| `scale`         | `scale`         | Specifies the size of the component.                                                                                                                                    | `"l" \| "m" \| "s"`              | `"m"`       |
| `status`        | `status`        | Specifies the status of the input field, which determines message and icons.                                                                                            | `"idle" \| "invalid" \| "valid"` | `"idle"`    |
| `value`         | `value`         | The component's value.                                                                                                                                                  | `any`                            | `undefined` |

## Events

| Event                   | Description                                          | Type                |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `calciteCheckboxChange` | Fires when the component's `checked` status changes. | `CustomEvent<void>` |

## Methods

### `setFocus() => Promise<void>`

Sets focus on the component.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`

## CSS Custom Properties

| Name                      | Description                                 |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `--calcite-checkbox-size` | Specifies the component's height and width. |

## Dependencies

### Used by

- [calcite-card](../card)
- [calcite-tree-item](../tree-item)

### Graph

```mermaid
graph TD;
  calcite-card --> calcite-checkbox
  calcite-tree-item --> calcite-checkbox
  style calcite-checkbox fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
```

---

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*

Commit message:

docs(c-components): audit descriptions in readme.

packages/calcite-components/src/components/checkbox/readme.md, after:

# calcite-checkbox

The `calcite-checkbox` component is a small, square decision making components used for optional choice or multi-selectable lists.

Checkboxes are designed to be used for "yes" and "no" interactions, or interactions where a choice is optional.

Use Checkbox for interactions when a multi-select list is needed, for single choice interactions, please consider [Radio Button](https://developers.arcgis.com/calcite-design-system/components/radio-button/) or [Segmented Control](https://developers.arcgis.com/calcite-design-system/components/segmented-control/).

For "on" and "off" interactions, consider [Switch](https://developers.arcgis.com/calcite-design-system/components/switch/).

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->

## Usage

### Basic

```html
<calcite-checkbox id="first-name" name="first-name"></calcite-checkbox>
```

### Checked-with-calcite-label

```html
<calcite-label layout="inline" for="checked-item">
  To do
  <calcite-checkbox checked id="checked-item" name="checked-item"></calcite-checkbox>
</calcite-label>
```

### Indeterminate-with-native-label

```html
<calcite-label for="checked-indeterminate">Status</calcite-label>
<calcite-checkbox checked indeterminate id="checked-indeterminate" name="checked-indeterminate"></calcite-checkbox>
```

## Properties

| Property        | Attribute       | Description                                                                                                                                                             | Type                             | Default     |
| --------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `checked`       | `checked`       | When `true`, the component is checked.                                                                                                                                  | `boolean`                        | `false`     |
| `disabled`      | `disabled`      | When `true`, interaction is prevented and the component is displayed with lower opacity.                                                                                | `boolean`                        | `false`     |
| `form`          | `form`          | The `id` of the form that will be associated with the component. When not set, the component will be associated with its ancestor form element, if any.                 | `string`                         | `undefined` |
| `guid`          | `guid`          | The `id` attribute of the component. When omitted, a globally unique identifier is used.                                                                                | `string`                         | `undefined` |
| `indeterminate` | `indeterminate` | When `true`, the component is initially indeterminate, which is independent from its `checked` value. The state is visual only, and can look different across browsers. | `boolean`                        | `false`     |
| `label`         | `label`         | Accessible name for the component.                                                                                                                                      | `string`                         | `undefined` |
| `name`          | `name`          | Specifies the name of the component. Required to pass the component's `value` on form submission.                                                                       | `string`                         | `undefined` |
| `required`      | `required`      | When `true`, the component must have a value in order for the form to submit.                                                                                           | `boolean`                        | `false`     |
| `scale`         | `scale`         | Specifies the size of the component.                                                                                                                                    | `"l" \| "m" \| "s"`              | `"m"`       |
| `status`        | `status`        | Specifies the status of the input field, which determines message and icons.                                                                                            | `"idle" \| "invalid" \| "valid"` | `"idle"`    |
| `value`         | `value`         | The component's value.                                                                                                                                                  | `any`                            | `undefined` |

## Events

| Event                   | Description                                          | Type                |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `calciteCheckboxChange` | Fires when the component's `checked` status changes. | `CustomEvent<void>` |

## Methods

### `setFocus() => Promise<void>`

Sets focus on the component.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`

## CSS Custom Properties

| Name                      | Description                                 |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `--calcite-checkbox-size` | Specifies the component's height and width. |

## Dependencies

### Used by

- [calcite-card](../card)
- [calcite-tree-item](../tree-item)

### Graph

```mermaid
graph TD;
  calcite-card --> calcite-checkbox
  calcite-tree-item --> calcite-checkbox
  style calcite-checkbox fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
```

---

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*
