packages/calcite-components/conventions/Internationalization.md, before:

# Internationalization (i18n)

Typically, components allow users to supply text values via slots and attributes, but there are cases where components need to take additional steps to support internationalization.

## Formatting

Formatting of values, such as numbers and dates, for display should use the [`Intl` APIs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl).

### Styling/Layout

To add right-to-left (RTL) support to your components you should use [CSS Logical properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Logical_Properties) within CSS. If you need to know direction in JavaScript, use the internal `getElementDir` helper in the dom utility.

Some CSS properties do not have logical equivalents. Such as...

- box-shadow
- text-shadow
- transform
- background-position

For these properties, you should use the internal `getElementDir` helper to apply the `CSS_UTILITY.rtl` class to your component.

## Translation (t9n)

The following section covers how to add built-in translation support to components.

### `useT9nController` pattern

This pattern enables components to support built-in translations. In order to support this, a component must:

1. Implement the `useT9nController`. Please refer to [useT9n](https://qawebgis.esri.com/components/lumina/controllers/useT9n) doc for implementation specifications.
2. Add the translation bundles as mentioned in [docs](https://qawebgis.esri.com/components/lumina/controllers/useT9n#_2-create-an-english-t9n-strings-file).
3. Add an appropriate E2E test by using the `t9n` common test helper.
4. Internal components that support public t9n components
   1. Do not have to implement the `useT9n` controller
   2. Should use an internal `messages` property and its type should correspond to the parent component's messages type as mentioned [here](https://qawebgis.esri.com/components/lumina/controllers/useT9n#sharing-strings-between-parent-and-sub-component).

#### Notes

- The internal `messages` property should be used as the source of truth for translations in rendering.
- List of supported locales can be found on our [Localization support page](https://developers.arcgis.com/calcite-design-system/localization/#locale-support).
- Placeholders in message bundle strings should:
  - Use the following syntax: `{placeholder}` (e.g., `Hello {userName}, my old friend. 👋`).
  - Have an expressive name to provide context regarding its use.

Commit message:

add reference to build procedure

packages/calcite-components/conventions/Internationalization.md, after:

# Internationalization (i18n)

Typically, components allow users to supply text values via slots and attributes, but there are cases where components need to take additional steps to support internationalization.

## Formatting

Formatting of values, such as numbers and dates, for display should use the [`Intl` APIs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl).

### Styling/Layout

To add right-to-left (RTL) support to your components you should use [CSS Logical properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Logical_Properties) within CSS. If you need to know direction in JavaScript, use the internal `getElementDir` helper in the dom utility.

Some CSS properties do not have logical equivalents. Such as...

- box-shadow
- text-shadow
- transform
- background-position

For these properties, you should use the internal `getElementDir` helper to apply the `CSS_UTILITY.rtl` class to your component.

## Translation (t9n)

The following section covers how to add built-in translation support to components.

### `useT9nController` pattern

This pattern enables components to support built-in translations. In order to support this, a component must:

1. Implement the `useT9nController`. Please refer to [useT9n](https://qawebgis.esri.com/components/lumina/controllers/useT9n) doc for implementation specifications.
2. Add the translation bundles as mentioned in [docs](https://qawebgis.esri.com/components/lumina/controllers/useT9n#_2-create-an-english-t9n-strings-file).
3. Add an appropriate E2E test by using the `t9n` common test helper.
4. Internal components that support public t9n components
   1. Do not have to implement the `useT9n` controller
   2. Should use an internal `messages` property and its type should correspond to the parent component's messages type as mentioned [here](https://qawebgis.esri.com/components/lumina/controllers/useT9n#sharing-strings-between-parent-and-sub-component).
5. Please refer to [Calcite Translation Build Process](https://devtopia.esri.com/WebGIS/calcite-design-system/wiki/Calcite-Translations-Build-Process) before submitting the PR.

#### Notes

- The internal `messages` property should be used as the source of truth for translations in rendering.
- List of supported locales can be found on our [Localization support page](https://developers.arcgis.com/calcite-design-system/localization/#locale-support).
- Placeholders in message bundle strings should:
  - Use the following syntax: `{placeholder}` (e.g., `Hello {userName}, my old friend. 👋`).
  - Have an expressive name to provide context regarding its use.
