packages/calcite-components/src/components/segmented-control/readme.md, before:

# calcite-segmented-control

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->

## Usage

### Basic

```html
<calcite-segmented-control layout="horizontal" appearance="solid" scale="m" width="auto">
  <calcite-segmented-control-item value="apple" checked>Apple</calcite-segmented-control-item>
  <calcite-segmented-control-item value="mango">Mango</calcite-segmented-control-item>
  <calcite-segmented-control-item value="tomato">Tomato</calcite-segmented-control-item>
  <calcite-segmented-control-item value="banana">Banana</calcite-segmented-control-item>
</calcite-segmented-control>
```

## Properties

| Property       | Attribute    | Description                                                                                                                                           | Type                                     | Default        |
| -------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| `appearance`   | `appearance` | Specifies the appearance style of the component.                                                                                                      | `"outline" \| "outline-fill" \| "solid"` | `"solid"`      |
| `disabled`     | `disabled`   | When `true`, interaction is prevented and the component is displayed with lower opacity.                                                              | `boolean`                                | `false`        |
| `form`         | `form`       | The ID of the form that will be associated with the component. When not set, the component will be associated with its ancestor form element, if any. | `string`                                 | `undefined`    |
| `layout`       | `layout`     | Defines the layout of the component.                                                                                                                  | `"horizontal" \| "vertical"`             | `"horizontal"` |
| `name`         | `name`       | Specifies the name of the component. Required to pass the component's `value` on form submission.                                                     | `string`                                 | `undefined`    |
| `scale`        | `scale`      | Specifies the size of the component.                                                                                                                  | `"l" \| "m" \| "s"`                      | `"m"`          |
| `selectedItem` | --           | The component's selected item `HTMLElement`.                                                                                                          | `HTMLCalciteSegmentedControlItemElement` | `undefined`    |
| `value`        | `value`      | The component's `selectedItem` value.                                                                                                                 | `string`                                 | `null`         |
| `width`        | `width`      | Specifies the width of the component.                                                                                                                 | `"auto" \| "full"`                       | `"auto"`       |

## Events

| Event                           | Description                                                        | Type                |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| `calciteSegmentedControlChange` | Fires when the `calcite-segmented-control-item` selection changes. | `CustomEvent<void>` |

## Methods

### `setFocus() => Promise<void>`

Sets focus on the component.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`

## Slots

| Slot | Description                                          |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
|      | A slot for adding `calcite-segmented-control-item`s. |

---

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*

Commit message:

docs: update component READMEs (#8553)
This PR was automatically generated by the update-doc GitHub action

Co-authored-by: jcfranco <jcfranco@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/calcite-components/src/components/segmented-control/readme.md, after:

# calcite-segmented-control

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->

## Usage

### Basic

```html
<calcite-segmented-control layout="horizontal" appearance="solid" scale="m" width="auto">
  <calcite-segmented-control-item value="apple" checked>Apple</calcite-segmented-control-item>
  <calcite-segmented-control-item value="mango">Mango</calcite-segmented-control-item>
  <calcite-segmented-control-item value="tomato">Tomato</calcite-segmented-control-item>
  <calcite-segmented-control-item value="banana">Banana</calcite-segmented-control-item>
</calcite-segmented-control>
```

## Properties

| Property       | Attribute    | Description                                                                                                                                           | Type                                     | Default        |
| -------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| `appearance`   | `appearance` | Specifies the appearance style of the component.                                                                                                      | `"outline" \| "outline-fill" \| "solid"` | `"solid"`      |
| `disabled`     | `disabled`   | When `true`, interaction is prevented and the component is displayed with lower opacity.                                                              | `boolean`                                | `false`        |
| `form`         | `form`       | The ID of the form that will be associated with the component. When not set, the component will be associated with its ancestor form element, if any. | `string`                                 | `undefined`    |
| `layout`       | `layout`     | Defines the layout of the component.                                                                                                                  | `"horizontal" \| "vertical"`             | `"horizontal"` |
| `name`         | `name`       | Specifies the name of the component. Required to pass the component's `value` on form submission.                                                     | `string`                                 | `undefined`    |
| `required`     | `required`   | When `true`, the component must have a value in order for the form to submit.                                                                         | `boolean`                                | `false`        |
| `scale`        | `scale`      | Specifies the size of the component.                                                                                                                  | `"l" \| "m" \| "s"`                      | `"m"`          |
| `selectedItem` | --           | The component's selected item `HTMLElement`.                                                                                                          | `HTMLCalciteSegmentedControlItemElement` | `undefined`    |
| `value`        | `value`      | The component's `selectedItem` value.                                                                                                                 | `string`                                 | `null`         |
| `width`        | `width`      | Specifies the width of the component.                                                                                                                 | `"auto" \| "full"`                       | `"auto"`       |

## Events

| Event                           | Description                                                        | Type                |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| `calciteSegmentedControlChange` | Fires when the `calcite-segmented-control-item` selection changes. | `CustomEvent<void>` |

## Methods

### `setFocus() => Promise<void>`

Sets focus on the component.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`

## Slots

| Slot | Description                                          |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
|      | A slot for adding `calcite-segmented-control-item`s. |

---

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*
