packages/calcite-components/src/components/action-bar/readme.md, before:

# calcite-action-bar

## Description

The `calcite-action-bar` component is made up of multiple `calcite-action`s in the form of clickable icons. The action bar can be expanded to view actions with descriptive text or made smaller to view with just icons.

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->

## Usage

### Actions-end

The actions-end slot renders `calcite-action`s that stick to the end of the bar prior to the expand/collapse icon.

```html
<calcite-action-bar>
  <calcite-action text="Information" icon="information"></calcite-action>
  <calcite-action text="Feedback" slot="actions-end" icon="mega-phone"></calcite-action>
</calcite-action-bar>
```

### Basic

Renders `calcite-action`s that stick to the top of the bar.

```html
<calcite-action-bar>
  <calcite-action text="Add" icon="plus"></calcite-action>
  <calcite-action text="Save" icon="save"></calcite-action>
</calcite-action-bar>
```

### Tooltip

Renders with a tooltip on the expand action.

```html
<calcite-action-bar id="action-bar-test">
  <calcite-tooltip slot="expand-tooltip">Expand</calcite-tooltip>
  <calcite-action text="Add" icon="plus"></calcite-action>
</calcite-action-bar>
```

### With-grouping

Renders a group of `calcite-action`s contained in a `calcite-action-group`. Actions in a group are visually separated from other groups or actions in the bar.

```html
<calcite-action-bar>
  <calcite-action-group label="Manage item">
    <calcite-action text="Add" icon="plus"></calcite-action>
    <calcite-action text="Save" icon="save"></calcite-action>
  </calcite-action-group>

  <calcite-action-group label="Item types">
    <calcite-action text="Layers" icon="layers"></calcite-action>
    <calcite-action text="Basemaps" icon="layer-basemap"></calcite-action>
  </calcite-action-group>
</calcite-action-bar>
```

## Properties

| Property                  | Attribute                   | Description                                                                     | Type                         | Default      |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------ |
| `actionsEndGroupLabel`    | `actions-end-group-label`   | Specifies the accessible label for the last `calcite-action-group`.             | `string`                     | `undefined`  |
| `expandDisabled`          | `expand-disabled`           | When `true`, the expand-toggling behavior is disabled.                          | `boolean`                    | `false`      |
| `expanded`                | `expanded`                  | When `true`, the component is expanded.                                         | `boolean`                    | `false`      |
| `layout`                  | `layout`                    | Specifies the layout direction of the actions.                                  | `"horizontal" \| "vertical"` | `"vertical"` |
| `messageOverrides`        | `message-overrides`         | Use this property to override individual strings used by the component.         | `ActionBarMessages`          | `undefined`  |
| `overflowActionsDisabled` | `overflow-actions-disabled` | Disables automatically overflowing `calcite-action`s that won't fit into menus. | `boolean`                    | `false`      |
| `position`                | `position`                  | Arranges the component depending on the element's `dir` property.               | `"end" \| "start"`           | `undefined`  |
| `scale`                   | `scale`                     | Specifies the size of the expand `calcite-action`.                              | `"l" \| "m" \| "s"`          | `undefined`  |

## Events

| Event                    | Description                                    | Type                |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `calciteActionBarToggle` | Fires when the `expanded` property is toggled. | `CustomEvent<void>` |

## Methods

### `setFocus() => Promise<void>`

Sets focus on the component's first focusable element.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`

## Slots

| Slot               | Description                                                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                    | A slot for adding `calcite-action`s that will appear at the top of the component.                                                                                         |
| `"actions-end"`    | A slot for adding `calcite-action`s that will appear at the end of the component, prior to the collapse/expand button.                                                    |
| `"bottom-actions"` | [Deprecated] Use the `"actions-end"` slot instead. A slot for adding `calcite-action`s that will appear at the bottom of the component, above the collapse/expand button. |
| `"expand-tooltip"` | A slot to set the `calcite-tooltip` for the expand toggle.                                                                                                                |

## CSS Custom Properties

| Name                                      | Description                                                                       |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--calcite-action-bar-expanded-max-width` | When `layout` is `"vertical"`, specifies the expanded max width of the component. |

## Dependencies

### Depends on

- [calcite-action-group](../action-group)
- [calcite-action](../action)

### Graph

```mermaid
graph TD;
  calcite-action-bar --> calcite-action-group
  calcite-action-bar --> calcite-action
  calcite-action-group --> calcite-action-menu
  calcite-action-group --> calcite-action
  calcite-action-menu --> calcite-action
  calcite-action-menu --> calcite-popover
  calcite-action --> calcite-loader
  calcite-action --> calcite-icon
  calcite-popover --> calcite-action
  calcite-popover --> calcite-icon
  style calcite-action-bar fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
```

---

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*

Commit message:

docs(action components): audit descriptions in readme

packages/calcite-components/src/components/action-bar/readme.md, after:

# calcite-action-bar

## Description

The `calcite-action-bar` component is made up of multiple `calcite-action`s in the form of clickable icons. The action bar can be expanded to view actions with descriptive text or made smaller to view with just icons.

Action bars should be placed on the left or right edge of the interface. For a floating group of actions, please consider Action Pad.

When using Action Bar, its parent should use the CSS Flexbox layout.

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->

## Usage

### Actions-end

The actions-end slot renders `calcite-action`s that stick to the end of the bar prior to the expand/collapse icon.

```html
<calcite-action-bar>
  <calcite-action text="Information" icon="information"></calcite-action>
  <calcite-action text="Feedback" slot="actions-end" icon="mega-phone"></calcite-action>
</calcite-action-bar>
```

### Basic

Renders `calcite-action`s that stick to the top of the bar.

```html
<calcite-action-bar>
  <calcite-action text="Add" icon="plus"></calcite-action>
  <calcite-action text="Save" icon="save"></calcite-action>
</calcite-action-bar>
```

### Tooltip

Renders with a tooltip on the expand action.

```html
<calcite-action-bar id="action-bar-test">
  <calcite-tooltip slot="expand-tooltip">Expand</calcite-tooltip>
  <calcite-action text="Add" icon="plus"></calcite-action>
</calcite-action-bar>
```

### With-grouping

Renders a group of `calcite-action`s contained in a `calcite-action-group`. Actions in a group are visually separated from other groups or actions in the bar.

```html
<calcite-action-bar>
  <calcite-action-group label="Manage item">
    <calcite-action text="Add" icon="plus"></calcite-action>
    <calcite-action text="Save" icon="save"></calcite-action>
  </calcite-action-group>

  <calcite-action-group label="Item types">
    <calcite-action text="Layers" icon="layers"></calcite-action>
    <calcite-action text="Basemaps" icon="layer-basemap"></calcite-action>
  </calcite-action-group>
</calcite-action-bar>
```

## Properties

| Property                  | Attribute                   | Description                                                                     | Type                         | Default      |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------ |
| `actionsEndGroupLabel`    | `actions-end-group-label`   | Specifies the accessible label for the last `calcite-action-group`.             | `string`                     | `undefined`  |
| `expandDisabled`          | `expand-disabled`           | When `true`, the expand-toggling behavior is disabled.                          | `boolean`                    | `false`      |
| `expanded`                | `expanded`                  | When `true`, the component is expanded.                                         | `boolean`                    | `false`      |
| `layout`                  | `layout`                    | Specifies the layout direction of the actions.                                  | `"horizontal" \| "vertical"` | `"vertical"` |
| `messageOverrides`        | `message-overrides`         | Use this property to override individual strings used by the component.         | `ActionBarMessages`          | `undefined`  |
| `overflowActionsDisabled` | `overflow-actions-disabled` | Disables automatically overflowing `calcite-action`s that won't fit into menus. | `boolean`                    | `false`      |
| `position`                | `position`                  | Arranges the component depending on the element's `dir` property.               | `"end" \| "start"`           | `undefined`  |
| `scale`                   | `scale`                     | Specifies the size of the expand `calcite-action`.                              | `"l" \| "m" \| "s"`          | `undefined`  |

## Events

| Event                    | Description                                    | Type                |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `calciteActionBarToggle` | Fires when the `expanded` property is toggled. | `CustomEvent<void>` |

## Methods

### `setFocus() => Promise<void>`

Sets focus on the component's first focusable element.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`

## Slots

| Slot               | Description                                                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                    | A slot for adding `calcite-action`s that will appear at the top of the component.                                                                                         |
| `"actions-end"`    | A slot for adding `calcite-action`s that will appear at the end of the component, prior to the collapse/expand button.                                                    |
| `"bottom-actions"` | [Deprecated] Use the `"actions-end"` slot instead. A slot for adding `calcite-action`s that will appear at the bottom of the component, above the collapse/expand button. |
| `"expand-tooltip"` | A slot to set the `calcite-tooltip` for the expand toggle.                                                                                                                |

## CSS Custom Properties

| Name                                      | Description                                                                       |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--calcite-action-bar-expanded-max-width` | When `layout` is `"vertical"`, specifies the expanded max width of the component. |

## Dependencies

### Depends on

- [calcite-action-group](../action-group)
- [calcite-action](../action)

### Graph

```mermaid
graph TD;
  calcite-action-bar --> calcite-action-group
  calcite-action-bar --> calcite-action
  calcite-action-group --> calcite-action-menu
  calcite-action-group --> calcite-action
  calcite-action-menu --> calcite-action
  calcite-action-menu --> calcite-popover
  calcite-action --> calcite-loader
  calcite-action --> calcite-icon
  calcite-popover --> calcite-action
  calcite-popover --> calcite-icon
  style calcite-action-bar fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
```

---

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*
