packages/calcite-components/src/components/accordion-item/readme.md, before:

# calcite-accordion-item

individual `calcite-accordion` item

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->

## Properties

| Property      | Attribute       | Description                                                                                                 | Type                         | Default     |
| ------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------- |
| `description` | `description`   | Specifies a description for the component.                                                                  | `string`                     | `undefined` |
| `expanded`    | `expanded`      | When `true`, the component is expanded.                                                                     | `boolean`                    | `false`     |
| `heading`     | `heading`       | Specifies heading text for the component.                                                                   | `string`                     | `undefined` |
| `iconEnd`     | `icon-end`      | Specifies an icon to display at the end of the component.                                                   | `string`                     | `undefined` |
| `iconFlipRtl` | `icon-flip-rtl` | Displays the `iconStart` and/or `iconEnd` as flipped when the element direction is right-to-left (`"rtl"`). | `"both" \| "end" \| "start"` | `undefined` |
| `iconStart`   | `icon-start`    | Specifies an icon to display at the start of the component.                                                 | `string`                     | `undefined` |

## Slots

| Slot | Description                                                                   |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|      | A slot for adding custom content, including nested `calcite-accordion-item`s. |

## Dependencies

### Depends on

- [calcite-icon](../icon)

### Graph

```mermaid
graph TD;
  calcite-accordion-item --> calcite-icon
  style calcite-accordion-item fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
```

---

_Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)_

Commit message:

docs(accordion-item): update component description for vscode (#7611)
**Related Issue:** #6312 

## Summary
- Adds context to VS Code for the `accordion-item` component
- Tests our maintenance limitation when additional labels are present

packages/calcite-components/src/components/accordion-item/readme.md, after:

# calcite-accordion-item

A child component of `calcite-accordion`, where some behavior is inherited from its parent such as the `appearance` and `selectionMode`.

<!-- Auto Generated Below -->

## Properties

| Property      | Attribute       | Description                                                                                                 | Type                         | Default     |
| ------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------- |
| `description` | `description`   | Specifies a description for the component.                                                                  | `string`                     | `undefined` |
| `expanded`    | `expanded`      | When `true`, the component is expanded.                                                                     | `boolean`                    | `false`     |
| `heading`     | `heading`       | Specifies heading text for the component.                                                                   | `string`                     | `undefined` |
| `iconEnd`     | `icon-end`      | Specifies an icon to display at the end of the component.                                                   | `string`                     | `undefined` |
| `iconFlipRtl` | `icon-flip-rtl` | Displays the `iconStart` and/or `iconEnd` as flipped when the element direction is right-to-left (`"rtl"`). | `"both" \| "end" \| "start"` | `undefined` |
| `iconStart`   | `icon-start`    | Specifies an icon to display at the start of the component.                                                 | `string`                     | `undefined` |

## Slots

| Slot | Description                                                                   |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|      | A slot for adding custom content, including nested `calcite-accordion-item`s. |

## Dependencies

### Depends on

- [calcite-icon](../icon)

### Graph

```mermaid
graph TD;
  calcite-accordion-item --> calcite-icon
  style calcite-accordion-item fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
```

---

_Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)_
